Dear authors,

The 37th IEEE International Conference on Distributed Computing (ICDCS
2017) program committee regrets to inform you that your paper

476
Geo-Replicating Federated File Systems

was not accepted by the research tracks.

Each paper was reviewed by 3~4 independent reviews and discussed
during online PC meeting and face to face TPC chair meeting held in
Atlanta on February 24. Out of 531 submissions, 90 papers were
accepted (16.9% acceptance rate). Both the number of papers submitted
and the number of papers accepted are ICDCS records.

Reviews and comments on your paper are appended to this email. The
submissions site also has the paper's reviews and comments, as well as
more information about review scores.

Thank you for submitting your work for consideration to ICDCS 2017.

Best Wishes,

Ling

----

Prof. Dr. Ling Liu
ICDCS 2017 Program Chair
Professor, School of CS
Georgia Institute of Technology


----------------------- REVIEW 1 ---------------------
PAPER: 476
TITLE: Geo-Replicating Federated File Systems
AUTHORS: Benjamin Bengfort and Pete Keleher

Overall evaluation: 0 (borderline paper)
How innovative is this paper?: 4 (good (some novel ideas here))
How impactful is the paper likely to be?: 3 (fair (typical paper, will
have some followup and citations))
Is the paper technically correct?: 3 (Correct)
Would you recommend this paper for the ICDCS 2017 best paper award?: 1 (No)

----------- List strong points of the paper (at least three) -----------
See review

----------- List weak points of the paper (at least three) -----------
See review

----------- Please provide a detailed review: summary, justification,
major and minor comments and suggestions -----------
This paper explores a hierarchical consistency mechanism consisting of
an eventually consistent collection of strongly consistent localized
systems. Simulations are performed. It is hard for reader to judge
effectiveness of this approach as realistic applications are not
investigated and the simulations only look at "micro benchmarks" and
do not quantitatively compare with any other systems. I would have
expected a comparison with approaches like Spanner which is of course
beautifully described in 2012 OSDI paper and known to satisfy some
realistic constraints. The theoretical orientation and lack of key
references of paper causes me to mark it down; otherwise it seems
technically strong.


----------------------- REVIEW 2 ---------------------
PAPER: 476
TITLE: Geo-Replicating Federated File Systems
AUTHORS: Benjamin Bengfort and Pete Keleher

Overall evaluation: -1 (weak reject)
How innovative is this paper?: 3 (fair)
How impactful is the paper likely to be?: 3 (fair (typical paper, will
have some followup and citations))
Is the paper technically correct?: 2 (Minor errors (could be addressed
in a revision))
Would you recommend this paper for the ICDCS 2017 best paper award?: 1 (No)

----------- List strong points of the paper (at least three) -----------
The paper studies the problems of consistency in existing file systems.
This paper uses a combination of two consistency models to achieve the
trade-off between performance and consistency.
The paper contains some experimental results.

----------- List weak points of the paper (at least three) -----------
No definitions for many terms.

It's hard to read and understand the Introduction.

Some grammatical mistakes.

Some figures are with waste of space and difficult to read, such as
Figures 2 and 3.

----------- Please provide a detailed review: summary, justification,
major and minor comments and suggestions -----------
The paper proposes a federated consistency model for distributed file
systems, which achieves a middle ground in the trade-off between
performance and consistency. The federated consistency combines the
strengths of eventual and sequential consistency models. Comprehensive
experiments show the efficacy of the proposed federated consistency
model.


Many terms are used without definitions, such as “message latency”,
“RPC”, “eventual cloud” and so on. More importantly, what's
“Geo-replicating” in Title? No description about it in the full paper.

It is hard to follow the motivation in the Abstract and Introduction.

- “we propose “federated consistency”, which combines the strengths of
both approaches into a single protocol...” what the “both approaches”
refer to? The “strongly consistent devices” and “eventually consistent
devices” mentioned in the above paragraph? But there exists no
description about them in Introduction.

- “We believe that local, user-oriented distributed systems should
augment cloud services rather than be replaced by them; and in some
cases, such as disaster recovery or search and rescue, may be the only
available system. ” Why this sentence appears there? It seems no
correlation with the context.

- “We show that a federated consistency protocol can find a middle
ground in the trade-off between performance and consistency,
particularly between an eventually consistent system ... and a
sequential consistency model ... ”, but “strongly consistent” and
“eventually consistent” in Abstract. What are the similarities and
differences between “sequential consistency model” and “strongly
consistent system”?

- According to Introduction, I could not answer the questions: what
are the challenges of existing file systems? Why other methods could
not solve the challenges? What you have done?


There exist some grammatical mistakes in the paper. For example, “we
might, therefore, generally categorize ... and using some consensus
algorithm for control ...” in the second paragraph of Introduction, it
might be “some consensus algorithms”.“we limit this discussion to the
models most useful for our purposes: eventual and sequential
consistency” in Background. But why other consistency models are not
useful for your purposes, such as causal consistency, linearizability
presented above? Furthermore, what are your purposes? No descriptions
about them.

Many sentences are too long to read easily.


----------------------- REVIEW 3 ---------------------
PAPER: 476
TITLE: Geo-Replicating Federated File Systems
AUTHORS: Benjamin Bengfort and Pete Keleher

Overall evaluation: 0 (borderline paper)
How innovative is this paper?: 4 (good (some novel ideas here))
How impactful is the paper likely to be?: 3 (fair (typical paper, will
have some followup and citations))
Is the paper technically correct?: 3 (Correct)
Would you recommend this paper for the ICDCS 2017 best paper award?: 1 (No)

----------- List strong points of the paper (at least three) -----------
- interesting and relevant problem and solution
  - there is novelty in the combination of Raft and gossiping
  - decent writeup on context and related work

----------- List weak points of the paper (at least three) -----------
- work is still rather immature
  - insufficient evaluations
  - not always an easy read

----------- Please provide a detailed review: summary, justification,
major and minor comments and suggestions -----------
Although I liked the paper, I found it a relatively difficult
  read. The idea of combining Raft clouds with eventual consistency is
  an interesting one and has some novelty. In essence, one can view it
  as logical scaling with a Raft cloud forming a logical processor.

  There are two major problems that need to be addressed. First,
  although the model by itself is appealing, its description needs to
  be improved to allow the reader to fully grasp what is going on. At
  least I found it difficult at points to understand what the possible
  implications of choices could be. A particular weak point of the
  model is the way timing is introduced. Latencies in various networks
  are known to be extremely variable, raising doubt about the
  practical implications if this model would be instantiated in a real
  environment.

  It is not difficult to understand why the evaluation is done through
  simulations, and I appreciate that at least to a certain extent
  efforts are made to explore parameter spaces. However, the current
  evaluation can at best hint that federated consistency may be
  worthwhile, but for a conference like ICDCS we need much more.


----------------------- REVIEW 4 ---------------------
PAPER: 476
TITLE: Geo-Replicating Federated File Systems
AUTHORS: Benjamin Bengfort and Pete Keleher

Overall evaluation: -2 (reject)
How innovative is this paper?: 2 (poor (mostly known stuff))
How impactful is the paper likely to be?: 2 (poor (a few people
working on this problem may be interested))
Is the paper technically correct?: 3 (Correct)
Would you recommend this paper for the ICDCS 2017 best paper award?: 1 (No)

----------- List strong points of the paper (at least three) -----------
-> The paper addresses federated consistency problem when a
distributed system spans across wide geographical area. This is an
important and practical problem.

-> The paper is well-written and easy to understand.

-> The proposed federated architecture is simple.

----------- List weak points of the paper (at least three) -----------
-> The research contribution of the paper is limited. Please see below
for detail comments.

-> The proposed approach has scalability problems. Please see below
for detail comments.

-> The evaluation section is weak. Please see below for detail comments.

----------- Please provide a detailed review: summary, justification,
major and minor comments and suggestions -----------
-> This paper proposes and analyzes a federated consistency protocol
in which a system of heterogeneous replica servers implement a variety
of consistency protocols depending on local policies and network or
service conditions. In particular, the paper shows how eventually
consistent systems implemented using gossip-based protocols and
sequentially consistent systems implemented by Raft consensus
protocols in different geographic regions can be combined together to
provide flexible global consistency guarantees. The analysis
demonstrates the spectrum of inherent tradeoff between performance and
consistency guarantees. The paper proposes a system where most nodes
implement optimistic eventual consistent protocols, while a small
subset of nodes maintain sequentially consistent central quorum.

-> The paper is well-written and easy to understand.

-> The paper addresses an important problem. Since many modern
distributed systems are geographically dispersed in areas with
different network conditions and application needs, a homogeneous
consistency approach is not always practical. It makes sense from
practical point of view to allow groups of nodes in each geographical
area to implement consistency protocols appropriate for that location,
while providing some desirable performance and consistency guarantees
at the global level.

-> The main problem with the proposed architecture is scalability,
which is a very important requirement for distributed systems. It is
well known that it is difficult to scale  sequential consensus
protocols like Raft, especially if the nodes are distributed across
geographic regions with large and variable latencies among such
regions. The leader selection as well as serializing message commits
at the leader become problematic with the increase and variability of
message latencies. The paper combines eventual and sequential
consistent systems in a fairly straightforward way, without addressing
this fundamental issue. The experimental results reported in the paper
are for a small scale system with only 5 nodes implementing Raft
protocol.

-> The idea of providing hybrid consistency guarantees by combining
strong/sequential and eventually consistent systems is not novel. This
paper looks like another addition to a considerable amount of similar
papers in this category. More importantly, it fails to address the
fundamental scalability problem mentioned above.

-> Although the paper argues for a system with one (or few) node(s) in
a geographic area being part of the strongly consistent core and rest
of the nodes participating in an eventually consistent group, it is
not clear how realistic the proposed architecture is. In practice, it
is more likely to encounter situations where data centers in different
locations follow different consistency models, but all nodes in the
same data center follow the same model - based on data center
environment and local application needs.

->The implementation of the Raft protocol in simulation needs to take
into account “write forks”. In the current implementation, the forked
writes are dropped. This could have implications on the scalability of
the core system.

-> The evaluation section needs more work. The proposed system is
evaluated using only simulations. Also a relatively small number of
nodes is used for evaluation. I would recommend implementing the
proposed mechanism in real systems and addressing scalability concerns
by performing larger scale experiments in practical settings.
